Franklin Delano Roosevelt was the longest serving president in us history.
Serving 12 years in office from 1933 to 1945.
He steered the nation through its worst economic crisis only to be faced with
the most horrific war in history though, facing Titanic,
physical challenges of his own.
He imbued America with the indomitable Fort you and sense of morale that was
required to spur the nation onto victory in today's biographics.
We examine the inspirational life of the 30 seconds presidents of the United
States. Franklin Delano Roosevelt
Franklin Deno Roosevelt was born on January the 30th, 1882,
the only child of James and Sarah and Deno Roosevelt in Hyde park,
New York,
James recorded the event in his diary that day rising at quarter to nine.
My Sally had a S splendid large boy. That was unconscious when he was born.
Baby weighs 10 pounds without clothes. It was not an easy birth.
In fact, both mother and baby nearly died due to the administration of too much
chloroform by the doctor. Ah, good old medicine back in the day,
despite being born, not breathing. Franklin went on to become a healthy child.
He was raised in a privileged living in an impressive estate that had been in
the Roosevelt family for more than a century.
The Roosevelts were of Dutch extraction. Having immigrated in 1654,
they became an American success story due largely to development in the coal and
transportation industries. Franklin's father, uh,
Harvard law school graduate served as the vice president of the Delaware and
Hudson railway,
and also served as presidents for the Southern railway security company,
his income and his inheritance allowed him to retire, to focus on his health,
which had never been very good. Sarah Delano note was the second wife of James.
Her existence revolved around caring for a son as a result.
The majority of Franklin's early childhood was spent in the company of his
mother. Sarah was an overly protective parent. She,
he came to feel resentful of anyone. You got to close to Franklin. Meanwhile,
James was often the absent father, Jan Franklin, though.
He did benefit from the privileges of wealth and position.
When he was five years old, he visited the white house with his father,
president gro Cleveland spoke to him personally saying,
I have just one wish for you. Young man,
that he will never be president's of the United States.
Franklin didn't attend school. Lynn state,
his father employed a private tutor for him.
He was an able student who applied himself to his lessons each summer Franklin
and Sarah would vacation at the Deno homestead in Fairhaven, Massachusetts.
There would also be an annual trip to Europe. During these days,
Franklin learned to speak German and French. As he grew older,
Franklin became an avid sportsman.
He played lawn tennis and polo and rode horses and learned to shoot a rifle in
his teens. He also took to golf and sailing.
It was customary for children of privilege to attend boarding school at the age
of 12.
But Sarah considered that her glorious boy was not yet ready to take such a big
step and delayed the move for two years at 14,
she enrolled him at the Grotton Episcopal school at Grotton, Massachusetts.
This school was attended by the children of the most privileged people,
although it was a,
a Franklin to suddenly be away from the protective care of his mother.
He soon adjusted dormitory life.
He played a number of sports and became a member of the school debating team,
as well as the choir.
He graduated from the school in June of 1900 with grades sufficiently impressive
to secure a spot at Harvard university in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
a Harvard man, Franklin became very socially active during his first year.
He joins a number of clubs on campus and began writing for the Harvard college
newspaper. He excelled in the college environment,
becoming a confidence and a popular student towards the end of 1900 Franklin's
father James. He died a year later. Another death profoundly affected him.
President William McKinley was killed by an Assassin's bullet,
an act which upheld Franklin's distant cousin,
Theodore Roosevelt to the white house.
This change of event served to peak Franklin's interest in his family history.
He wrote a college paper titled the Roosevelts of new Amsterdam and studied the
notations in the old Dutch family Bible.
After three years at Harvard Roosevelt was ready to graduate yet he chose to
stay on for another year in order to work as the chief editor of the Harvard
Crimson newspaper. One day in the summer of 1902,
he was heading back to the family mansion Hyde park from New York when he
happened upon an 18 year old ele Roosevelt. And yes, she did share his name.
She was in fact, a distant relative of his, the two.
They hit it off immediately. And from that chance,
encount romance blossomed Franklin.
He was captivated by Ellen's intellectual depth into social conscious things.
They got serious in 1903 with Franklin who was now studying Laura at Columbia
university, asking felons hand in marriage.
She eagerly agreed and wanted the wedding to take place. As soon as possible.
Franklin's mother Sarah was not happy with her son's choice of bride,
whether she had something specifically against the independently minded Eleanor,
or she felt threatened by any woman getting between her and her beloved boy.
Well, that song clear. She convinced Franklin to at least delay the wedding,
which took place on March the 17th of 1905 ele who was an orphan was given
away by her uncle. And that would be president Theodore Roosevelt,
the young uncle honeymoons in Europe upon return to New York,
Franklin returned to his law studies at Columbia university in may of 1906.
Eleena gave birth to their first child who they named Anna Eleanor.
The following year, Franklin passed the New York state bar exam.
He secured his first up as a law clerk. It's a prominent New York law firm.
A second child.
James came along in December of 1907 during 1907 Franklin's mother.
Sarah had been financing the building of a double house on 65th street in New
York.
It was to be a present couple with her living in one house and them living in
the other, the living spaces,
they were separated by a single door while grateful ele was frustrated at the
way that Sarah was smothering their marriage,
making decisions that should have been Ella's domain.
This was a difficult time in Ella's life.
Children were coming along regularly yet.
She admitted that she was not a natural mother.
She went so far as to write that she did not even like her children.
She hired a nanny and spent more time on local New York social issues,
such as working for improved factory conditions for workers.
Franklin's first far into politics. It came in 1910.
When he became leg to the New York democratic state committee,
he was then asked if he wanted to run for the office of state assemblyman.
It was assumed that the sitting assemblyman was about to retire Frank.
He was infused,
but then he found out that the incumbents was not planning to retire at all.
There was though an opening to run for New York state Senator with no
experience, but plenty of enthusiasm.
He began a grassy campaign that soon endeared him to the working people of the
city. He faced an uphill battle with the state being decidedly Republican.
However, on election day,
he found himself ahead by a thousand votes and he was suddenly the New York
state Senator.
The Roosevelts now rented out their house in New York city and moved to the
state capital in Albany, New York,
Franklin though he soon became embroils in political intrigue,
a powerful faction of the New York democratic party known as Taney hall had run
the party for decades. Roosevelt. However was not one to do what he was told.
He was not going to be anybody's puppet.
He stated his opposition to the Taney hall group and built his own support
network who were known in the papers as the little group of insurgents through
his adherence principal and his refusal to bag down.
Roosevelt developed a reputation as a man who would stand up his beliefs as his
first term drew to a close though. Roosevelt was struck down by typhoid fever,
which has a 20% death rate.
He recovered though and vigorously campaigned for a second term.
As New York state Senator, he won this one by 1,700 votes.
Roosevelt was a supporter of Woodrow Wilson who won the presidency in 1912.
Wilson said about rewarding.
Those who had stood by him and you course Roosevelt was offered the position of
assistant secretary of the Navy.
It was the same position that his distant cousin Theodore had held a in 1897.
Franklin now gave up his state Senate seat to take on the new role.
Roosevelt's job had him traveling the country to inspect ships and Naval yards.
He soon discovered that the Navy was really quite ill prepared for war,
and he campaigned for the creation of a Naval reserve of 50,000 men.
Along with increased spending on ship building Roosevelt didn't seem to care
that his words, their actions were not politically expedient.
His only interest seemed to be bolstering. The Navy.
This attitude is earned in respects across the political spectrum with the
outbreak of war in Europe. In August of 1914,
Roosevelt became even more dedicated to his work of building up the us Navy.
He excelled in the role and won many advantages for the Navy with the 1916
presidential election Roosevelt's future. It hung in the balance.
If Wilson was returned to office,
he would no doubt retain his position as assistant Navy secretary.
But if a Republican moved into the white house,
he would more than likely be unceremoniously dumped. It was an,
an extremely closely fought race with Roosevelt later,
describing it as the most extraordinary day of my life. At the end of the day,
Wilson won out to retain the presidency and Roosevelt's job was secure with
America's entry into the war in 1917, his position, it took on more urgency.
He was instrumental in the drive to illit public donations for the war at as
well as the development of mind, detonation technology,
the pressures of his work kept Roosevelt away from his family for increasingly
long pressures of time.
He began an affair with the social secretary of his wife.
Eleena that would continue on and off into his death.
The women's name was Lucy Meer sometime in around 1918,
ele found the letters between the two they field that Franklin was planning to
divorce her and making you life with Lucy. However,
Franklin's mother refused to permit such a scandals or warning her son,
that it would ruin his political career.
From that point on Roosevelt's marriage was one of expedience and convenience.
Ele sued set up a separate home in Hyde park for her in the children.
And she threw herself into a social work.
The break in their marriage was so severe that Roosevelt asked Eleanor in 1942
to come back and live with him due to his poor health.
She refused in September of 1918 Roosevelt made a state visit to France and
Britain to inspect Naval facilities on the return trip on board,
the USS lava and the influenza pandemic. It ran through the ship.
A number of people died and Roosevelt became very ill. However,
he recovered before he reached New York.
Following the ends of hostilities in 1918 Roosevelt began looking towards his
next run for office. After March consultation,
he decided to campaign for the democratic vice presidential nomination.
His bid was successful and he found himself on the ticket alongside a Ohio
James Cox, who was running for presidents,
Roosevelt resigned as assistant secretary to the Navy and spent the next year
and a half on the campaign trail. The 1920 election,
it ended up being a resounding victory for the Republicans with Warren G
Harding, securing the presidency,
Roosevelt accepted the loss with grace.
He returned to New York to pick up his law practice. In August of 1921,
the family were vacationing at Campobello islands.
When he was struck down with an illness,
it was believed that he had contracted poliomyelitis with a condition,
paralyzing him from the waist down.
More recent analysis suggests that it may in fact have been an autoimmune
disease called GUI bar syndrome.
Sarah urged her son to retire and live out his life in retirement,
but his closest advisors, including wife, Eleanor,
they felt otherwise he should continue with his public career,
which they assured him was on a trajectory towards the white house,
thus encouraged. He spent the next few years in physical rehabilitation.
If he couldn't walk unaided,
he would at least project that impression to the public.
He taught himself to walk a few paces with metal braces on his hips and with the
aid of a cane,
he was determined that the public would not see him in a wheelchair. In 1926,
Roosevelt financed the building of a hydrotherapy debilitation clinic in warm
Springs, Georgia.
He spent much of his time there throughout the remainder of the 1920s during his
rehab years, Roosevelt maintained close contact with the democratic party.
Then in 19 20 80 reluctantly ran the governor of New York.
He won by a margin of just 1%.
His governorship was marked by a focus on innovative infrastructure projects,
such as hydrostatic power plans and the institution of his far side chats during
which he spoke directly over the radio to the people of New York winning
reelection in 1930,
Roosevelt introduced an economic relief package to help the millions suffering
from the side effects of the depression.
He also established a number of commissions through root out public corruption.
As the popular two term,
governor of the country's most dynamic state Roosevelt was a front runner for
the democratic presidential nomination. In 1932,
he won the nomination at the democratic national convention in his acceptance
speech. He promised I pledge you.
I pledge myself to a new deal for the American people.
This is more than a political campaign is a call to arms Roosevelt,
ran on a platform of government funded, public works, farm relief,
and the appeal of prohibition on the strength of these policies and his winning
personality.
He won 57% of the popular vote to become the 32nd president of the
United States.
After taking the oath of office Roosevelt delivered his inaugural address,
best known for it's famous line. So first.
Of all,
let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have
to fear is fear itself, nameless,
unreasoning, unjustified terror,
which paralyzes needed efforts to convert secret.
Into advance.
After the inaugural address a woman by the name of Sarah Love said any man who
can talk like that in times like these is worthy of every ounce of support,
a true American has Roosevelt assumed office in the midst of the greatest
financial crisis, the, the United States has ever faced unemployment.
It was 20. He,
5% banks have closed all over the country and more than 2 million people were
homeless Roosevelt dedicated himself to saving the nation he would do so by
putting in place the relief programs of his first new deal.
He restructured systems that were broken and this invigorated the spirit of his
people and other key to this invigoration, whereas far side chats,
which were something he continued from his go.
He spoke to the American people as a loving father,
full of optimism and of good ideas. During his first time,
Roosevelt established a number of major relief initiatives.
These included the federal relief administration and the public works
administration,
which provided an employment to a quarter of a million men throughout the
country in August, 1935. He also signed the social security act,
which included benefits for the unemployed and the elderly from 1935 Roosevelt
embarked on his second new deal. Squarely focused on the business community.
Wholesale changes were made to the banking industry and business in order to
make things fairer to the everyday man by 1936 Roosevelt's policies and
personality had made him one of the most popular presidents in all of history.
The election that year,
it was a landslide victory with the president taking every state except Maine
and Vermont. During his second time, Roosevelt spent a lot of time in broiled,
in legal challenges to many of the programs that he had brought in during his
first time in 1936, the Supreme court was largely conservative. However,
by 1941,
Roosevelt had appointed seven of the nine justices with growing tension between
Germany and the other European nations Roosevelt pursued a policy of us
isolationism. However, by mid 1938,
with public opinion in the us firmly against German aggression towards the Jews
hit again, bill building up the military for the possibility of war.
When the war broke out in September of 1939,
he actively looked for opportunities to support Britain and France Roosevelt
struck up a great friendship with Winston Churchill who became British prime
minister in may of 1940, the United States.
It began supplying an increasing number of armaments to the British while at the
same time,
continuing to build up its own war footing the fall of France after just six
weeks, it was a shock to everyone in America. From that point forward,
the majority of people,
they were inclined towards American intervention in the European war in 1940
Roosevelt made the decision to run for an unprecedented third term.
As president, there had been a tradition of limiting presidents to two terms.
However,
Roosevelt was con convinced that a change of leadership in a time of approaching
war would be disastrous for the country, throwing himself into their campaign.
He won another overwhelming victory winning 85% of the popular
vote and 38 of 48 states throughout 1941,
Roosevelt became overtly critical of Hitler.
He became furious when Hitler began threatening and shipping in the Atlantic
declaring,
we will not let Hitler prescribe the waters of the world on which our ships may
travel. The American flag is not going to be driven from the seas either by his
submarines, his airplanes or his threats. Then on December the seventh,
1941,
more than 350 Japanese fighter planes launched a sub attack on
the us Naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Some 3000 people lost their lives.
Dozens of ships were sunk and many planes were destroyed as they just sat on the
runway. The next day,
president Roosevelt addressed Congress with these memorable words yesterday,
December the seventh, 1941, a date which will live in infamy.
The United States of America was suddenly and deliberately attacked by Naval and
air forces of the empire of Japan.
He then asked Congress to declare war on the empire of Japan,
which it duly did within days.
The declaration of war was extended to include Germany and Italy,
Franklin Roosevelt.
It was now a wartime precedent as the us war machine rolled into action with
hundreds of thousands of men being sent to Europe and the Pacific theaters of
war Roosevelt focused on building up morale on the home front,
his main vehicle for achieving.
This was still his far sight chats on February the 23rd, 1942.
We told the nation.
Here are three high purposes for are every American
one. We shall not stop work for a single day.
If any dispute arises,
we shall keep on working while the dispute is solved by
mediation or conciliation or arbitration
until the R is one, two.
We shall not demand special gains or special privileges or
special advantages for any one group or
occupation three.
We shall give up conveniences and modify the routine of our,
if our country asks us to do so,
we will do it carefully remembering that the common enemy
seeks to destroy every home and every freedom in every
part of our land.
With the Americans having just entered the war.
The Russians won a decisive Vic tree in the battle of Stalin grant, the Nazis,
they were finally being pushed back towards Berlin from the east Roosevelt,
his generals.
They were convinced that a similar push from the west would drive the Nazis into
submission.
The planning for a grand invasion of Western Europe had begun throughout 1942
and 43 Roosevelt had a number of other meetings with allied leaders,
including Churchill Stalin, and the Chinese leader,
Chanka shack on June the fifth, 1944,
president Roosevelts addressed the American people with the following news
yesterday on June 4th, 1944, Rome fell to American and allied troops.
The first of the access capitals is now in our hands. One up two to go.
The following day and major step was taken in taking out the biggest access
power on the more of June the sixth, 1944,
hundreds of thousands of allied troops landed on the beaches of Normandy.
After fierce fighting the German army, it was pushed back now,
the Nazis they were being squeezed from both sides.
It was now clear to Roosevelt that an allied victory was coming.
He began to place his focus on the logistics of that victory.
He spoke of the allies as a group of United I nations.
He was convinced that only a worldwide union of nations could prevent a future
war. Roosevelt's championing of what was to become the United nations.
Finally brought Woodrow Wilson's dream to life.
Wilson's dream had been the imperfect league of nations, but as we all know,
the United nations is still around today with a 90,
44 presidential election rapidly approach.
Roosevelt said he felt torn stating all that is within me,
cries out to go back to my home on the Hudson river,
to avoid public responsibilities and to avoid also the publicity,
which in our democracy follows every step of the nation's chief executive such
would be my choice,
but we have this generation chance to live in a day and an hour when our nation
has been attacked and when its future existence and the future existence of our
chosen method of government are at stake. Roosevelt ran for a fourth term,
but he did not involve himself in the campaign. Still. He won again.
He was now set to serve out 60 years as the president of the United States,
but it wasn't to be
The stresses of the war had taken a heavy toll on Roosevelt.
He was now 62 years old. He looked weary,
suffered from high blood pressure in a weak heart. During the summer of 1944,
he came down with a bad cold.
He was still sick when he traveled by ship in February,
1945 to Malta for the big three conference with Churchland Stalin Roosevelt was
exhausted when he arrived back in Washington on February the 28th people
commented that he looked like he was dying and they weren't far wrong.
All Roosevelt wanted to do now was sleep. At the beginning of April,
he managed to escape Washington for his retreat at warm Springs, Georgia.
On the morning of April the 12th, he sat while an artist painted his portrait.
They stopped for lunch at 1:00 PM. 15 minutes later,
he complains that he had a terrible headache. Then he slumped to the ground.
He was saying a massive cerebral hemorrhage. Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
He died at 3:35 PM on the 12th day of April, 1945.
It was just 27 days before the war in Europe came to an end,
having guided his country through its worst depression and its most harrowing
war. FDR was finally at peace historians.
They can consistently rank Roosevelt George Washington and Abraham Lincoln as
the three greatest presidents, FDR biographer, Jean Edward Smith,
R of Roosevelt.
He lifted himself from a wheelchair to lift the nation from its knees.
So I really hope you found that video inspiring.
I think it's the right word for that. I'd rather enjoy that one.
If he did like it, please do give us the thumbs up below.
Also don't forget to subscribe.
If you want more videos from us and hit that bell.
So you actually find out when we put out new videos, we do a fewer weeks.
So do that. You'll find out about them as, as always. Thank you for watching.